# **Oregon by Night**
## **House Rules and Character Creation**

?> **Updated 01/29/22.** Everything new is <u>underlined</u>.

### **i. Rule the First**

Use the four-page character sheet (V20\_4-Page\_Elder\_Interactive.pdf)
posted in the house rules channel. I once felt comfortable recommending
software for PDFs, however, due to recent events I no longer can. I've
been using Foxit Reader and it's been doing well for me\...thus far. Do
your best and use best practices. Always uncheck/refuse all additional
software when installing whatever solution you choose.\
\
That said, the sheet has shown *massive* incompatibilities with any web
browser-based .pdf viewer.\

Don't open it in Chrome. Don't open it in Microsoft Edge. Don't open it
in Safari. Don't open it in Firefox. Yet get the picture.

### **ii. Rule the Second**

Using anything other than the Excel spreadsheet
(V20\_Character\_Tracker.xltm) provided in the house rules channel for
your Character Log will result in the destruction of your entire
family's timeline going back 2,000 years. You are duly warned. If you do
not own a license for Microsoft Excel, LibreOffice is free, failing
that, Google Sheets is... serviceable. Please save the file with macros
enabled (eg. as a .xlsm).

### **iii. Rule the Third**

Do not @/ping the Administrator, please. @/ping Staff as little as
possible; generally, only if you require clarifications on rules or
setting info. This cuts down on our load and thus allows us to plot
more... Plot.

### **iv. Foreword**

I intend for this setting to be "Our Universe plus the World of
Darkness". This Venue was created with the intention that anyone
***willing to give the Server Administrator Final Say upon these Rules
and NPC behavior*** could come here and play whatever character concept
they please that isn't intentionally absurd, disruptive to the
community, or would be considered "griefing". My goal with both the
Rules As Written and these House Rules are to create an equitable space
in which everyone can play while feeling that things are fair, even
though the World of Darkness itself is not Balanced in any "all
characters are equal" sort of way. It is a difficult set of concepts to
crystallize into text in a precise manner. The Administrator asks for
your trust, and any benefit of the doubt.\
\
The universe of this venue possesses a physical reality, it exists in a
'discoverable' state and events leave behind the evidence that we have
discovered or can discover through science. The Big Bang occurred, stars
and planets went through accretion. Life formed, or arrived (?) here,
and evolved into its myriad forms.\
\
As life and consciousness arose, so with them the spirits, souls, and
the various spiritual realms surrounding our little place in the
universe took shape. It was at this point that the powerful celestial
entities took notice and did all that super fucked up shit in the Lore,
which any PC may or may not discover at great length of searching. Mage
does not exist in this venue: Magick died in \~1000 A.D\... Forever. The
various mortal magical organizations still exist, though they utilize
the various Numina and Hedge Magics allowed in this Venue. This is all
generalization, and anything I may have misplaced here or gotten wrong
should be glossed over for the abstract beast at which I'm stabbing.\
\
Our Venue takes place in the entire state of Oregon, and it is currently
1981.\
\
### **iv. Book List**\
\
V20 Core, the V20 Guide, and all the books mentioned therein, plus the
V20 Dark Ages *Tome of Secrets*.\
\
This will likely change as real time passes and I better see what I wish
to exclude. The V20 Guide is an open source document provided in the
same channel that you obtained this document from. Do not rely on
material listed by wikis or other online sources; when in doubt, verify
content in an actual book.\
\
**Coming Soon:**

## **Character Creation**

### **1. Options**

What you may play is currently limited to the list of Clans on pg. 20 of
V20 Core, their antitribu, Caitiff, and ex-Panders, who will default to
Independants or Probationary Anarchs. Character creation begins on pg.
80 of the V20 Core. Be sure to fill out the PDF sheet AND the Tracker
side by side to save time. If you are an accidental Embrace or a Sabbat
mass embrace, you are 13^th^ Generation, and why is explained elsewhere
in these rules. You may also play a mortal, ghoul, or kinfolk. Players
may not play Hunters or Sabbat. All types of mortals are allowed, they
just can't be Hunters.

The Camarilla does not accept PCs of Clans Tzimisce, Lasombra,
Assamites, Followers of Set, Ravnos and Caitiff, though Caitiff might be
accepted to the Sect during play. The Camarilla only accepts PC members
of the Bloodlines Daughters of Cacophony, Gargoyles, and True Brujah,
none of which are allowed as PCs but are here entered for clarification
of lore and attitude.

When creating purely mortal characters, use the process found on pg. 35
of *Hunters Hunted II*, minus the supernatural stuff, and using the
6/4/3 spread -- it's more generous to the players than the process for
Ghouls in the V20 Core, which Ghoul PCs continue to use. This does not
prevent mortals from taking Supernatural Merits, Flaws and Numina (see
Rule 19), which are allowed. Kinfolk use their appropriate entry in W20.

Ghouls *may* use "In the Master's Footsteps", found on pg. 121 of
*Ghouls and Revenants,* if they wish*.* Clan signature Disciplines (ex.
Vicissitude, Protean, any Blood Sorcery) are rarely taught, but can be
at regnant's discretion. Additionally, pg. 120 of *Ghouls and
Revenants* describes generational limits for Discipline dots.

You cannot play, or become during play, a Viking.

### **2. Caitiff**

The Caitiff Discipline choices are: Auspex, Animalism, Celerity,
Dementation, Dominate, Fortitude, Obfuscate, Obtenebration (ex-Pander
only), Potence, Presence, Protean, and Vicissitude (ex-Pander only).

You may only take one of Dementation, Obtenebration, Protean, or
Vicissitude. As noted, Obtenebration and Vicissitude are available only
to ex-Panders.

Caitiff and ex-Panders choose three Disciplines at Character Creation
that are "In Blood". These can be improved without a teacher.

If you have your weird little heart just dead set on a strange
Discipline from a Clan or Bloodline not allowed for play, you may take
the new Caitiff-only Merit: Echoes of Faded Glory (see Merits & Flaws)

### **3. Blood Sorcery**

At Character Creation, Rituals may be obtained by spending Freebie
Points equal to their XP cost
(level × 2 or × 3, as stated in House Rules and Clarifications § 18). If
your Clan or Sorcery entry states that members or users usually start on
a particular Path of Sorcery, you must start on that Path.


If you are a Camarilla Tremere, the first level 5 Ritual you must take
is Enchant Talisman.

Currently, Camarilla Tremere assigned to the Portland Chantry may start
on The Green Path or Path of Blood. This may change in the future if the
Player Characters enabling this become unavailable, are Retired, or
Destroyed.

Novel Rituals may be incepted, or existing rituals from other Sorcery
Traditions may be adapted, once you have mastered your primary Path of
Blood Sorcery and have at least one Ritual of all five levels. See Rule
24 for the Language of Inception and Adaption.

### **4. Backgrounds**

Cult is limited to 3 at Character Creation.

### **6. Merits & Flaws**

Merit based bonuses of any kind do not stack with each other. This
includes difficulty reductions and bonus dice that would apply to the
same roll. Choose one.

The Merits **Additional Discipline** and **Blessed by St Gustav**
provide you with a dot of the Discipline you chose/Auspex (and make
those Disciplines in-Clan, as noted in their text) in addition to the
three Discipline dots you get at character creation. This Merit may only
be purchased by Vampires at Character Generation. You may not use
Additional Discipline to obtain Spiritus, Bardo, or Ogham.

**Iron Will:** This merit does not affect Dementation 1 in any way
because it is entirely emotional in nature.

**Vicissitude Modifications:** These may be taken as Merits during
Character Generation, however, receiving such Modifications during play
is restricted until whichever Character you're currently playing has
been approved and active for at least 2 Real Time months. This applies
to all types, kinds and methods of modification in any approved text.

**Arcane:** This Merit is stricken. It is too vague to be implemented
effectively in a Venue such as this.

**True Celerity:** This Merit is stricken.

**Natural Linguist:** This Merit's bonus dice applies to addressing
groups/public speaking, translation, or interpreting the meaning of
closely related languages like Spanish and Portuguese, and nothing else.

**Cold Read:** This Merit is stricken. It's too squishy, too vague and
too vulnerable to abuse on both sides.

**Berserker:** This Merit does not apply to Reflexive Rolls.

**Enchanting Voice:** This Merit only provides half it's Difficulty
Reduction to Discipline Rolls.

Below are new Merits and Flaws:

-   **Echoes of Faded Glory** (+3, Supernatural): Only Caitiff may take
    this Merit. This switches one of your in-Blood three to a Clan
    signature Discipline that you desire, if approved by an ST. Taking
    this merit makes your sire a member of that Clan/Bloodline, and if
    you are found to have their Discipline\... well\... there are
    consequences to those sorts of things. You may not use this Merit to
    obtain Spiritus, Bardo, or Ogham.
-   **Anachronism** (-2, Social): This Flaw makes you from a certain
    time far back in history; 1890 or before. You have no knowledge of
    any events, science, or technology since that time. You have been
    awake from a long torpor for a week, at best, and your character
    build should reflect this.

### **7. Specializations**

You must specialize at the first dot if you take any of the following:
Expression, Crafts, Performance, Academics, Law, Science, Technology,
and Pilot. The Specialization that you choose for these abilities are
also its narrow focus and if you wish to play a different instrument,
fly a different set of aircraft, or know a different area of Law, then
you must purchase the Ability again with that Specialization. This not
only grants you "Exploding 10's", but also shows the narrow focus
required to be competent in any of these fields.

Other specializations apply as usual: any Attribute or Ability may be
specialized when the fourth+ dot is placed in or purchased for it.

### **8. Restrictions**

You may not purchase more than 2 Dots of Status or Disciplines during
Character Creation (buying up more Discipline dots with XP is allowed if
making a new sheet after Retirement. See Rule 18 Experience Points For
Details). I see a steady stream of character sheets with players trying
to be Keepers, Hounds and Harpies etc. These are titles you must buy or
earn in play, nothing comes for free.

If you were accidentally Embraced, Embraced yourself, or are a
Shovelhead, you are 13^th Generation unless you include diablerie or
some other exceptional reason why this isn't the case in your Backstory.

Spiritus, because of how it is obtained, and the historicity of its
possessor's destruction, cannot be obtained at Character creation, or in
play.

You may only invoke the "More Inhumane Vampires" mechanic on p85 of the
Core if you start on a Path of Enlightenment. The Path of Honorable
Accord does not qualify for this mechanic.

### **9. Logging**

Write and submit a log of where every dot went on your sheet, using the
Excel document mentioned in Venue Rules § Rule the Second. Be sure to
follow the proper order presented in the V20 Core. Experience gains and
expenditures are to be similarly logged and should be ready to submit
upon demand to any staff member at any moment. Always include which
doucheba... err...Storyteller gave you the XP.

### **10. Character Submission**

When your character is complete, submit both your character sheet PDF
and Excel log to the Discord account noted to be accepting new player
sheets in the \#house-rules channel. They will review it and inform you
of any issues.

Once your character is completed and approved by a staff member, you
must write a description and post a portrait to the \#characters
channel. The portrait cannot be of a real person other than you. You may
use artbreeder.com, thispersondoesnotexist.com, or any of a host of
other similar services to obtain art. Alternately, you may produce your
own original works.

### **11. Approval**

Once you have submitted and had approved the first ever character you
make, you receive 10XP, which can immediately be spent. This is a
one-time bonus; you do not receive it for subsequent characters.

## **Venue Rules**

### **1. Narration**

Use italics to indicate descriptions, actions, and the like. Wrap
dialogue in quotes.

Always narrate your character's actions in the 3^rd^ person. Compress
and summarize your interactions with your own vassals as much as
possible, and avoid it entirely whenever possible.

### **2. Stay in Your Lane**

Don't "godmod". i.e. -- Don't assume any action you take via premise,
especially to other PCs.


If you would want another to make a roll to do it to you, you need to
make a roll to do it to another.
Do not make changes to the physical world around you through narrative
text that your character isn't able to effect with their own abilities.
Do not presume that NPCs around you take actions through premise. These
are ST prerogatives.

### **3. Be Nice**

No trolling. Of any kind. The success and function of this venue depends
upon the good faith engagement of all who participate. Be respectful to
others at all times. Be your best self. In-character, though\...

### **4. Violence for Violence is the Rule of the Beasts**

PVP is conditionally allowed. Attempts at initiating permanent, lasting,
or directly lethal harm require the consent of the players involved.
Less-permanent attacks (such as the use of Dominate, Presence, or
similar disciplines, the social "ruining" of another, attacks on
backgrounds, et cetera) do not require said permission. Players who
initiate attacks of this kind, in doing so, automatically consent to
retaliation -- which can include escalation to anything up to (and
including) Final Death. Escalation must be at least vaguely reasonable
("Bill insulted the color of my shoes, so I diablerized him," isn't
going to fly), with final adjudication in cases where players cannot
agree going to an ST. PvP that ends in a fatality locks the killer from
penalty-free retirement for a month, to allow interested parties to
react.

Example 1 : Joe the Elder is feeling bored, so he wants to go abduct
Matt the Anarch off the riverfront and blood-bond him.

Joe may not, without Matt's consent.

Example 2: Bob the Ventrue was sleighted last Elysium by Carmilla the
Brjuah, and now he wants to send a message. So, he poisons a few members
of her herd and sends a sternly-worded letter to mind her place.

Bob does not need to obtain Carmilla's consent to attack her herd, but
Carmilla now has free reign to retaliate -- including by kicking in
Bob's door, stake in hand.

It goes without saying that this does not extend to allowing free reign
on crossing certain lines (eg: torture, rape, et cetera).

### **5. The Return of Be Nice: X-Card Edition**

Discuss subject bans with your Storyteller at the start of the session
if that ST isn't already informed.

Always get out-of-character, or at minimum in-character consent before
doing anything sexual, graphically violent, or otherwise violational in
nature to anyone else's character. No exceptions.

In general, avoid gratuitous descriptions of NSFW topics. Fade to black,
or, failing that, pull back and summarize when appropriate. The more
explicit you are, the less explicit you should be.

### **6. Let's Not Do the Time Warp Again**

The passage of time in game is nebulously handled, intentionally so.
Events and scenes are presumed to happen before or after one another as
they occur, but the amount of time between them is highly mutable unless
explicitly noted otherwise by the scene's Storyteller.

During unguided roleplay, your character may only be in one scene at a
time unless a Staff member grants you specific permission otherwise (on
a scene by scene basis); ask for a Multipass.

### **7. Geography 101**

Due to the low population of Oregon in 1981, the Camarilla treats it
like one big city.

Salem is the State Capitol, it is solidly Camarilla, and the sect has an
iron grip on all the mechanisms of state government. Any threat to this
power is met with swift, harsh, violent retribution by the potent Elders
who live there. The only vampires allowed in Salem are the Prince,
Seneschal, Primogen, Sheriff and those they designate, such as Abdal min
Aldam. Every time the Sabbat enter Salem, they are nearly immediately
destroyed. Astonishingly quickly, efficiently, and cleanly.

Portland is a mixed city consisting of a slight majority of Anarchs of
varying power levels, a large minority of Camarilla ancillae, neonates
and fledglings, and a small minority of Independents. The dividing line
between Camarilla and Anarch territory in Portland is the north-south
running portion of the 99E, with the Camarilla on the west side, and it
has been this way for quite some time, though, in practice, it is the
Williamette River that is the dividing line. Members of the Camarilla
who haven't been granted leave are generally only tolerated in Anarch
territory if with an escort, tending to owned real estate, or passing
through, and it helps to be on a highway or main road when using this
last excuse. The same is true for Anarchs in Camarilla territory with
the above exceptions, although Anarchs are allowed access to Elysiums,
and Salons if the host is so inclined. The riverfront on both sides is
shared, as are the many locations near it that can be considered "The
Rack". The Seneschal visits on occasion, but the most visible part of
Camarilla power here are the Whips, one for each Clan, who're appointed
by the Primogen via fiat. Sabbat can be found scattered around the
State, and at least one *very* stealthy pack operates here. It is also a
very badly kept secret that Astoria is held by the Sabbat in whole, very
solidly.

Other cities will enter the game as needed. Talk to your Storyteller.

### **8. You're Not The Doctor, You Dingbat**

Do not interfere with history, or attempt to use your knowledge of it to
benefit your character's future. Stay out of history's way. You may
involve yourself in minor or major events in our timeline, however, know
that you cannot affect their outcome and abusing the "plot armor" of
major historical figures, things, or locations will get you a visit from
the Time Elementals. It will be more than mildly unpleasant. On the
other hand, play it straight and you may wind up an unknown but vital
part of shaping our world.

Do not directly or closely connect your character to any major
historical figure or event. Do not change past historical events with
your character's history, and do not involve yourself in any central or
pivotal way with those events. Only peripheral association will be
allowed.

### **9. Metagaming and Anonymity**
If you feel you are about to undertake controversial actions and want to
prevent all possibility of metagaming, you may, at the Narrator's
discretion, ask for anonymity. The revelatory actions will be screened
through a Narrator, who will also make all your rolls. A large, extra
dose of cooperation on your part will be mandatory, and if you are
caught, the target of your actions will be notified with In Character
information as appropriate. Far too many instances of this sort of
metagaming have taken place in this Venue for this mechanic to not
exist. The Player Base is expected to understand that when the veil
covering anything is raised, it is as a courtesy, or for sharing the
enjoyment of what the storyteller was doing. In many circumstances the
curtain will not, and cannot be raised.

## **House Rules and Clarifications**

### **1. Willpower**

Willpower automatically recovers at a rate of 1 per real-time day. For
vampires, this happens when you rise for the night. For everyone else:
Dawn.

When you reach zero Willpower, your dice pools are halved for all
non-reflexive rolls, similar to (and stacking with) wound penalties to a
minimum of 1 Die in your Pool.

You may not spend more than one Willpower per combat round on an extra
success on an action. This is a reiteration of the RAW, p267. Any action
or power that has Willpower as its cost cannot have a Willpower spent to
gain extra successes except where specifically mentioned in the text.

You may not spend a Willpower to gain a success on an impossible action.
e.g. Nosferatu gaining a success on Appearance related tasks; making a
bed out of sleep.

### **2. Humanity**

Pg. 311 of V20 Core; Effects of Humanity: the second bullet point is
stricken entirely. Humanity does not affect the number of dice from your
Virtues that you roll under any circumstances. This same rule applies to
a low Path rating's effect on Virtue rolls. On Page 312 of the V20 Core, the chart labeled “Hierarchy of Sin – Humanity” contains several flagrant moral failings.  To correct this, the following Chart Shall be used:
-   **10 Selfish thoughts**
-   **9  Minor selfish acts**
-   **8  Intentional property damage**
-   **7  Theft**
-   **6  Accidental violation (drinking a vessel dry out of starvation)
-   **5  Injury to another (accidental or otherwise, does not include feeding that leaves the Prey Conscious)**
-   **4  Impassioned violation (manslaughter, killing a vessel in frenzy)
-   **3  Planned violation (outright murder, savored exsanguination)**
-   **2  Casual violation (thoughtless killing, feeding past satiation)**
-   **1  Utter perversion or heinous acts**

Note: Narrators can adjust the difficulty of degeneration checks to reflect 
situational context such as "self defense".


-   At 3 Humanity, expect for the vast majority of people to shun you on
    sight, to make Social rolls to overcome this, and for Hunters and
    Werewolves to *instantly* recognize what you are upon even the most
    casual scrutiny.
-   At 2 Humanity, everyone will blatantly move away from you while
    making frightened noises and will flee or attack if you draw near
    depending upon Willpower, Self Control, Courage, Instinct, and
    Circumstance. Most Princes, including the NPC Prince of this venue,
    will consider your unaltered appearance in public to be a Masquerade
    Breach at this point.
-   At 1 Humanity or Path rating 1, normal humans run screaming into the
    night or fight with all their tiny might if cornered. Only the most
    heroic efforts, or supernatural powers, can mask your terrifyingly
    obvious, monstrous nature.

All vampires on Paths suffer the penalties for Humanity 2 so long as
their Path Ratings are 2 or higher, and as stated in the core book,
cannot spend blood to "Blush" in any way. Using mundane methods of
disguise will reduce these penalties by one step per success, and lasts
the entire night unless some physical happenstance ruins your ruse. The
Dice Pool for disguising in this way is Manipulation + Subterfuge,
Difficulty 6. Supernatural disguise and appropriate Merits always remove
all these penalties.

<u>To change from Humanity to a Path, or from one Path to another:

1. Reach a rating of 1 in all Virtues that need to be changed, if any.  Commit sins against your Humanity/Path and sacrifice Virtue dots instead of Humanity/Path dots.  This mechanic can only be used if you are actively trying to switch.

2. Reach a rating of 2 Dots in Humanity/current Path, again through sins.

3. Moment of Truth: Must have a Mentor already on the Path.  Extended Willpower Roll.  Each roll costs 1 Willpower.  Difficulty = 10-(Sum of All Current Virtues).  Botches cost you one Humanity for each Botch Severity.  You may not spend Willpower to gain successes on these rolls.  Failure to reach 10 successes by your Willpower's end means you become a wight.

4. Once on a Path, you may not transition back to Humanity.  Once it's gone, it's gone forever.  Once you transition away from a Path, you may not go back to it ever again.  You have burned the bridge.

For further guidance, see page 112 of Vampire: The Dark Ages 20th Anniversary edition.</u>

### **3. Discerning the Transmundane**

If a mortal wishes to detect a vampire, it requires the vampire not to
be hidden from that being's senses, "Blushed", or otherwise disguised
via Merit or other effect (ex. Blush of Life, Domino of Life, Master of
the Masquerade) making the appearance of a vampire more human -- that
is, the vampire must be apparent. It also requires an amount of
observation that is suspicious if not concealed, and a Perception +
Alertness/Awareness, player's choice, roll. This is an opposed roll; the
vampire rolls Humanity + 3 dice. If some being without a supernatural
ability to do so wishes to detect a vampire who is under a condition
previously mentioned that prevents such detection (that is, the detectee
is concealed), the would-be detector *must* have Awareness, and make an
opposed roll with Perception + Awareness vs. the vampire's Humanity + 3
Dice (in other words, this roll *cannot* be made without Awareness).

Vampires (and Ghouls) have a much easier time recognizing each other. If
the detectee is not 'hidden', the detector rolls Perception + Alertness/Awareness, 
and the detectee rolls Humanity - 3 Dice.

Should the detectee be concealed, the detector instead rolls Perception
+ Awareness, or just Perception if they have no Awareness.

If successful, the detector knows if the detectee is a Mortal, Ghoul,
Vampire or\... Other. The detectee may, at any point, forfeit the roll
and allow the detector to sense them. All uses of these mechanics only
extend to about 3 meters/10 feet and does not work on spirits, wraiths,
or specters; nor can it be used on its own to foil mundane or
supernatural sneaking.

![](Aspose.Words.318ed6e5-1a8c-4eeb-85cb-97e001cf5d89.001.png)

Currently, technological means of identifying vampires are available
only to the military, various Federal Enforcement Agencies, and the
highest echelons of the black market (Streetwise or Influence 5
*required* to even *think* about making such a roll). Such devices can't
be bought with money, though their short and temporary use might be
secured with a wheelbarrow of cash. This will change if/as time
proceeds.

### 4. **Blood**

#### **Getting It, pt. i: How?**

Pg. 259-260 of V20 Core describes hunting rolls. All of the following
hunting systems are subject to the following cumulative modifiers:

-   **+1 Difficulty** if you are at 3-4 Humanity and bear no disguise,
-   **+1 Difficulty** if you are at 1-2 Humanity or are on a Path and
    bear no disguise,
-   **+2 Difficulty** if you are of blood that obviously breaks the
    Masquerade by appearance alone\
    (Nosferatu, Harbingers of Skulls, Kiasyd, Nagaraja, Samedi, Gangrel
    of sufficient Curse affliction, anyone with the Monstrous Flaw) and
    bear no disguise,
-   **+1 Difficulty** if you have any Flaw that would ward mortals away
    from you (such as but not limited to Beacon of the Unholy, Cold
    Breeze, Eerie Presence, etc.)
-   **+1 Difficulty** if you have any Flaw that restricts or complicates
    your feeding choices in a less severe way than the Ventrue Clan
    Weakness such as: Addiction, Prey Exclusion, Giovanni Clan Weakness,
    Grip of the Damned, ect.

As these are, again, cumulative, they can make the Difficulty Rise above
10 and thus making Hunting where you are impossible. Supernatural
disguise and appropriate Merits remove the first three penalties.

The Dice Pool for mundane disguising in this way is Manipulation +
Subterfuge, Difficulty 6.

**Hunting Any Time:** You may make Hunting roles even if you are not
currently involved in a Session/Chapter. You must make this roll in any
dice rolling channel, and it must use the full and correct dice-rolling
syntax (eg. difficulty including area, labeled with which method/pool is
being used, the territory hunted in, be exhaustive. Try using a
copy/paste to make it easier on yourself rather than typing it out whole
each time.). Each time you do this, you are locked out of RP for 3 Real
Time Hours in order to reflect the extra time you spent Hunting. If you
gain any amount of successes on this roll, you gain 2 Blood, or 1 Blood
if you are Humanity 7 or over. If you Fail, you waste your time. If you
Botch, refer to the chart below for your consequences.

**Daily Hunting:** Once per Calendar day, you may make a hunting roll in
the \#hunting channel. This roll must use the full and correct
dice-rolling syntax (eg. difficulty, including area, labeled with which
method/pool is being used, the territory hunted in, any equipment you
wish to include, etc, be exhaustive. Improperly labeled or unlabeled
rolls will be invalidated by Staff.). Try using a copy/paste to make it
easier on yourself rather than typing it out whole each time. When you
do this, you are assumed to have spent about 2 hours of your night on
the task, you gain the Blood listed below, and have not risked the
Masquerade. This will not limit you to participating in Chapters unless
your ST otherwise states, nor does it limit your RP in any way. Subtract
1 Blood from your total if you are Humanity 7, and subtract 2 blood if
you are Humanity 8 or higher as this is a simple system to reflect the
additional difficulty of feeding on humans while maintaining such high
moral standards. These penalties cannot result in a penalty of Blood
against you, nor can it increase the amount of Blood you lose in a
Botch. Consult the table below for your results:

-   **5+ Successes**: 7 Blood!
-   **4 Successes**: 6 Blood
-   **3 Successes**: 5 Blood
-   **2 Successes**: 3 Blood
-   **1 Success**: 2 Blood
-   **Failure**: No Blood.
-   **-1 Botch**:Lose 1 Blood; you spent more than you gained.
-   **-2 Botch**: TAINTED VICTIM! Lose 3 Blood as your body rejects what
    you drank.
-   **-3 Botch**: Notify Staff.

**Downtime Hunting:** Players who wish to hunt for and preserve mortal
blood with one or more of their Downtime nights should have the skills
and means to preserve it: Resources 2 required for access to reliable
refrigeration and/or the controlled substances required, or Blood
Sorcery, or Medicine 2, or\... *something*. This established, the player
should roll their character's preferred hunting pool at a Difficulty of
6, twice, and average the raw number of successes gained, rounding down
all fractions. Disciplines appropriate to the hunting method add dice to
this roll, if they would not already be factored in (eg. Dominate adds
dice to one method, while Celerity would already be in the pool for
another as it adds directly to Dexterity -- no double-dipping).
Willpower may *not* be spent on these rolls.

-   **5+ Successes**: 16 BP of properly preserved blood.
-   **4 Successes**: 14 BP.
-   **3 Successes**: 13 BP.
-   **2 Successes**: 12 BP.
-   **1 Success:** 9 BP.
-   **Failure**: Wasted night of Downtime.
-   **-1 Botch**: The character starts the next ST-moderated session at
    -4 BP.
-   **-2 Botch**:The previous penalty, plus the character has broken the
    Masquerade.
-   **-3 Botch**: Subjects the character to evil machinations of the
    ST/Narrators.

#### **5. Blood -- Getting It, pt. ii: Humans**

Being exposed to the Kiss hopelessly and forever blurs the memory of the
one minute before exposure began, the entire time the victim was
exposed, and one minute afterwards. This effect hides feeding from
mortals fed upon, and can also obviously be used in narrow situations to
cover the Masquerade. It's no substitute for The Forgetful Mind,
however, which along with similar powers can be used to recover and
clarify memories blurred by the Kiss. Giovanni and those with Grip of
the Damned still benefit from this memory fogging, but the victim
remembers vague agony and terror. Their victims still resist and
struggle, necessitating some kind of restraint, supernatural or
otherwise. All of this is common knowledge unless you specifically make
your vampire character ignorant of it.

Mortals regain one BP every two weeks. This shall be reflected in the
availability from your Herd and other sorts of Background obtained
associates, thus, you will not use Herd in your Hunting Rolls. Keep
close and meticulous track of this.

-   Taking one BP from a healthy mortal will leave them light headed
    until they eat and rest.
-   Taking two BP will leave them woozy for the day and feeling slightly
    low the day after.\
    (-1 on all dice rolls, minimum one die)
-   Taking three BP will most likely cause them to pass out and be woozy
    and drained (sorry) for several days after. (-2 dice on all rolls,
    minimum 1 die)
-   Taking four BP will harm them to the extent of needing medical care.
    If they go without, but are cared for indoors outside a hospital by
    someone not a doctor, they will likely (60%) recover over weeks.
-   Taking five or more BP will almost certainly kill them without an
    immediate transfusion\... or perhaps a regretful feeding of some
    lifesaving vitae\...

#### **6. Blood -- Getting It, pt. iii: Animals**

The hunting pool for Animals is always Dexterity/Manipulation + Animal
Ken.

You may only drink an amount of Animal Blood every night equal to (Self
Control x 1.5), round ALL decimals UP.

#### **7. Blood -- Keeping It**

Refrigeration in a sealed, sterile environment preserves normal blood's
drinkability for 2 weeks, as does chemical preservation at reasonable
temperatures. Refrigerating blood requires at least Resources 2. Doing
both makes blood viable to drink for 4 weeks, after which it is spoiled.
Drawing blood in a sterile fashion, and preserving it with the
appropriate materials requires Medicine 2. You may choose to preserve
any blood you gain by hunting in any fashion defined in these House
Rules, or in any guided session if your ST allows.

#### **8. Blood -- Spending It**

The rules on pg. 269 of V20 Core that deal with spending BP to appear
human allows the eating of food for its duration as its own feature
costing the full amount of BP required to do so.

### **9. The Embrace**

Intentional Embraces, including certain Thaumaturgical and Necromantic
methods of conferring the Embrace, give the childe the standard one
higher Generation, and costs the sire 2 temporary Willpower which
recover at the rate of one per real time week; all other types of
Embraces are accidental.

All accidental Embraces from vampires of 12^th^ Generation and below
result in a 13^th^ Generation vampire. Vampires of 13^th^ and higher
Generation cannot accidentally Embrace; what would otherwise be an
accidental Embrace, for them, fails to take and produces a dead mortal.
Mass Embraces are always accidental Embraces. Mortals who somehow manage
to obtain vitae and Embrace themselves are always accidental Embraces.
Supernaturally gifted mortals who Embrace themselves somehow might be
granted an exception under unique circumstances.

### **10. Vitae**

The taste of vampire blood cannot *ever* be disguised or altered in any
way, manner, shape, or form.

All vampires will recognize it as such at the first taste. Mortals will
describe it as an unidentifiable but exquisite flavor. A vampire, ghoul
or previously exposed mortal may detect the faintest trace of vampire
blood being given to them by taking a moment to smell the substance it
is being hidden in with a Perception + Alertness/Awareness (player's
choice, Difficulty 6, reduced by Auspex and Acute Sense: Smell) check.

The supernatural qualities of vampiric vitae are very fragile and do not
well preserve. Any liquid dilution, or the dissolving of excessive
gasses such as carbonation, prevents vitae from conferring the Embrace.
Even a rainy night can prevent a stray drop from turning a hapless
mortal bled out on the street, though any actual effort to confer the
Embrace under such conditions easily overcomes this. Any contact with
pure, reactive chemicals, strong bases, or acids and the like strips
vitae of all its supernatural qualities; as a rule of thumb, if the
effects of taking a swallow would cause you to want to call 911 or
another human who cared about you to hospitalize you for your safety, it
negates the supernatural qualities of vitae.

Vitae sitting in the open loses the quality of the Embrace in 1.5 hours,
its ability to ghoul in 3 hours, its ability to bond and attune you to
Disciplines in 6 hours, is useless for Blood Sorcery that requires you
to have the vitae of your target after 12 hours, gives half Blood Points
if drunk after 24 hours, and is spoiled in almost all ways after 48
hours. Refrigeration or sterile isolation doubles these times, and doing
both quadruples these times. Heating vitae to anything above 150°F
destroys all its supernatural qualities. Supernatural preservation of
vitae preserves any supernatural qualities it had at the time the
preservation began, for the duration of the preservation. Lastly, vitae,
no matter how stale, still sears away to ash when exposed to sunlight,
and always tastes like the best thing ever to pass over a tongue.

Mixing with other sorts of potable liquids preserves vitae's ability to
ghoul and bond, but removes its ability to confer the Embrace. Dilution
of vitae to the point that it cannot be detected by normal human senses
removes its ability to ghoul and bond, thus necessitating disguise,
trickery, coercion, supernatural powers, or force to bond or ghoul a
mortal. Make no mistake, however, once a level 2 blood bond is
established, or the mortal is ghouled, they notice it immediately, no
rolls required.

### **11. Ghouls & Revenants**

Ghouls and Revenants may only Blood Buff their Physical Attributes up to
5.

Ghouls and Revenants use the V20 Core Experience Chart on page 507,
instead of G&R's methodology.

Creating a ghoul requires the mortal be fed an entire Blood Point.
Increasing a ghoul's Blood Pool takes an entire Blood Point as well.
Causing, maintaining or advancing a Blood Bond, however, only require a
few drops of blood and not a full Blood Point.

You may only ghoul animals that you can communicate with using Feral
Whispers and this power is merely a guide, not a requirement to ghoul
animals. The only exception is when Nosferatu or similar characters have
the appropriate Merits to do so with the various specifically mentioned
invertebrates.

Revenant's Blood Pool is ten, and their Vitae overlaps. The only
difference between their mortal blood and their Vitae is its ability to
be expended according to how Revenants may do so. When Revenants expend
their Vitae, it merely turns into normal blood and continues circulating
within them, performing its physiological function. Later, as the
Revenant recovers their Blood Pool, it becomes Vitae once more, charged
with supernatural power, ready to use.

### **12. Equipment**

**Melee and Launched /Thrown Weapons:** These sorts of weapons can only
add a maximum of +3 to the Strength of the user for total Damage Dice,
and this pool is still limited as stated elsewhere in these rules.

**Form:** So long as you preserve the mechanical aspects of an equipment
entry, it can take whatever physical form that you like within reason.
This can provide you with no advantage. Obvious, unconcealable armor or
weapons still are those things whether it's an ancient samurai karuta,
modern battle armor, a claymore, katana, flamberge, AK-47 or M16. The
Rule of Cool applies, but avoid the absurd and the impossible; no
lightsabers, kinetic armor, unicorn horns, jet packs, plasma rifles in a
40-watt range, and so forth.

**Incendiary Ammunition:** Tracer rounds convert one wound to aggravated
if they hit a creature that suffers such wounds from fire. Shotguns use
these same rules when using slugs, and when using any area effect
incendiary load, convert 2 wounds to aggravated, and the range for this
effect is 5 meters.

**Explosions:** Function like AoE load shotguns for all in the range of
its blast.

**Launched Weapons:** All arrows and bolts in this venue do bashing
damage to vampires, for the same reasons that bullets do. This damage
becomes lethal when they hit the head or the heart, just like the called
shot mechanic for guns. Wooden arrows and bolts may stake using the
mechanic already present at range.

**Armor:** You may conceal armor. Obtaining armor requires Resources
equal to it's rating.

-   **Class One** (Reinforced/Heavy Clothing): Needs no concealment.
-   **Class Two** (Armored T-Shirt): Street Clothes, Outside Work
    Clothes, Suite and Tie, Jacket
-   **Class Three** (Kevlar Vest): Trench coat, Heavy Winter Gear
-   **Class Four** You may not conceal this level of armoring without
    supernatural abilities.
-   **Helmets**: Remove three dice of damage from headshots before roll.
    Helmets cannot be concealed.

**Shields:** These come in the same Classes as Body Armor but only Class
One can be concealed at all. They have the same health levels as their
Body Armor counterparts. Shields provide one of two benefits: In Melee
they provide a +1 (Class 1&2) or +2 (Class 3&4) Bonus to the Parry
Combat Maneuver and generally don't suffer enough damage to be
significantly damaged, though opponents may specifically target their
enemy's shield and damage it normally. Against modern firearms the
Player may choose to sacrifice one Health Level of the Shield to negate
2 Health Levels of Incoming Damage after the Damage Roll. Once the
Shield reaches Zero Health Levels it is destroyed.

**Weapon's Ranges:** The text under the Range entry on page 281 of the
V20 Core is stricken, it now reads: The range given for any weapon may
be extended by an equal amount for an additional +1 Difficulty to Hit,
and -1 Dice on the Damage Roll. Once the Difficulty reaches 10,
additional range increments may be added, but instead require an
additional Success to score a hit. Example: Duncan the Assamite wants to
shoot some Weerd Tremere at 1200 yards. Assuming he invokes no other
mechanics, he must make his Dex+Firearms roll vs a Difficulty of 10,
needing 2 or more successes to score a hit, and he is at -5 Damage Dice.

### **13. Combat Maneuvers**

**V20 Core, pg. 276, Clinch:** "No other actions are allowed until one
combatant breaks free."\
This sentence is stricken and replaced with the following text: "All
other actions may be employed except attacking with medium or large
weapons, moving away from the being you are Clinched with, dodging, and
hiding without the aid of supernatural powers. Any and all powers
activated that require touch automatically have the touch requirement
met with regards to both combatants. No combatant may be Clinched by
more than 4 other combatants simultaneously if all are human sized."

**New Mechanic, Pull Your Punches:** When you wish to do less damage
than you rolled, you may invoke this mechanic. Roll Self-Control at
difficulty 4. You may eliminate a number of health levels of damage up
to twice the number of successes rolled.

**Targeting (pg. 274)** now has expanded effects for the following hit
locations:

-   **Disarm** (pg.276) can also be performed with ranged weapons. The
    roll for this is at +2 difficulty instead of +1, and uses Dex +
    (Ranged Weapon Ability).

### **14. Dice & Difficulties**

All dice pools may rise above 10, with the exception of non-bashing
damage pools. Lethal and Aggravated Damage Dice Pools are limited to 15
and 10, respectively. Player's Characters can only take a maximum of 7
wounds from a single attack after the Soak Roll. Using dice pools above
ten for obvious actions in the presence and under the observation of
mortals is usually a breach of the Masquerade.

Difficulties are always between 2 and 10, unless RAW specifies
otherwise, which it does in certain places. You must always roll to
account for 1's and Exploding 10's due to Specialties. This is to
clarify pg. 249 of V20 Core which is a bit wishy-washy on the subject.

New Mechanic, Half Assed: You may choose to use less than your full dice
pool when making any roll.

### **15. Diablerie**

We will be using the Diablerie rules found on pg. 180 of *The Black
Hand: A Guide to the Tal'Mahe'Ra*.

### **16. Daily Aggravation (Aggravated Wounds and Damage)**

Aggravated damage may be healed once every real-time day at your local
sunset using the existing mechanics found in V20.

The Soak Difficulty for taking multiple different types of wounds from a
single attack is always 6. When soaking incoming damage of this nature,
any dice capable of soaking aggravated damage are assumed to line up
with any aggravated damage taken. The Soak Roll is applied first to
Aggravated, then to Lethal, then to Bashing. The Player may not opt to
change this order.

### **17. Backgrounds**

On Gaining/Losing Backgrounds and other character sheet aspects during
active play: When an ST deems that this is appropriate, it is to be
entered in the table stats channel under that session debrief, along
with what was granted and the reason. The player will note the same in
their log along with the session name, date and what was gained or lost.

Players may transfer Dots of Backgrounds to each other with a 15 Success
Downtime Task. You may not even begin this process until you have been
playing your current Character for at least 90 days.

NPCs represented by dots of Background (eg. **Allies, Retainer,
Contacts**) have drastically reduced stat entries for ease of play --
note that this is narrativist, not simulational; that is, their stats
represent how much they will do for you more than they represent their
capabilities in the abstract. NPC Backgrounds may not create additional
NPCs (eg. a Retainer cannot take dots in Allies, Mentor, or Retainer).
These NPCs have Standard Virtue Scores.

-   **One-dot NPCs** have Attributes of 2 and one at 3, two Abilities at
    2, and one Ability at 3.\
    All other dice pools are 3 or less.
-   **Two-dot NPCs** have Attributes at 2 excepting two at 3, three
    Abilities at 2 and two Abilities at 3.\
    All other dice pools are 3 or less.
-   **Three+ dot NPCs** have their own sheets that must be submitted and
    approved.

Full-sheet Retainers (3+ dots) are still fully-statted per the base
point allocation, but have no Freebie points, Merits, or Flaws, and are
limited to their dot rating for any Attribute or Ability (eg. a 3-dot
Retainer can have a maximum of 3 dots in any given Attribute or
Ability). Backgrounds should remain representative of a real person (eg.
not five dots in Influence and nothing else).

You may spend XP you earn on your Retainers if you wish. No Ally,
Retainer, or Contact may have any sort of Numina.

**Mentor and Library:** There are a couple of Backgrounds that can
support learning Blood Sorcery: chiefly, Mentor and Library. This source
comes from a single Tradition of Sorcery which must be chosen at the
time the first dot is taken for this purpose. Obtaining these Dots by
Downtimes Requires 30 Successes per Dot. Koldunism can only be obtained
through a Mentor. The following chart shows what you may learn at what
levels:

-   **Background 1**: One Path up to level 2. 3 Rituals up to level 2
    from your tradition.
-   **Background 2**: Two Paths, one to level 3, another to level 2. 6
    Rituals up to level 3.
-   **Background 3**: Three Paths, one to level 4, another to level 3, a
    third to level 1. 12 Rituals to level 4.
-   **Background 4**: Three Paths, one to level 5, another to level 4, a
    third to level 2. 20 Rituals to level 5.
-   **Background 5**: Four Paths, two to level 5, another to level 4, A
    third to level 3. Rituals? Yes.

Secret, Clan Specific, or Unique Rituals are not included or taught with
these Backgrounds. Examples include but are not limited to: Pavis of
Foul Presence, From Marduk's Throat, Eternal Mask, Nectar of the Bitter
Rose, and others like them.

Also excluded from these two Backgrounds are Bloodline Disciplines such
as Visceratika, Mytherceria, Melpominee, and Bardo.

**Herd:**

When you want Blood from your Herd, you simply take it, no roll
required. Thus, you will not use Herd in your Hunting Rolls. See **Blood
-- Getting It, pt. ii: Humans** for the effects members of your herd
sustain as you withdraw blood from them. You are required to keep
EXACTING track of these numbers.

**Resources:**

You must have good justification for being able to seek the 4th and 5th
Levels of this Background during Downtimes. You must have a total of 4
or 5 dots of appropriate Abilities+Disciplines to pursue these levels of
this Background, respectively. The number of successes you must gain in
order to obtain your Dot is (The Dot Number You're Seeking) x 5.

The wording of Resources 5 now excludes the words "nation, nations" and
"governments". You're not a multi-billionaire in 2020 terms; it's more
like around 100 million in total. Mostly, this doesn't affect anything,
but I don't want individual PCs toppling nations. Groups of PCs,
however...

**Influence:**

You must have good justification for being able to seek the 4th and 5th
Levels of this Background during Downtimes. You must have a total of 4
or 5 dots if appropriate Abilities+Disciplines to pursue these levels of
this Background, respectively. The number of successes you must gain in
order to obtain your Dot is (The Dot Number You're Seeking) x 5.

The wording of Influence 5 now reads, "Vastly powerful, you are also a
major force in the politics of the nations that share a land border with
your own."

**Armory:**

4 and 5 Dots grant access to more powerful hardware, rather than
granting a larger and larger stock of more mundane weapons and the
ability to service them. These dots also grant the equipment to store,
service and repair everything listed below, batteries included:

**4th Dot:**

| Type          | Damage    | Range | Rate    | Ammunition |
|------------------------|---------------|--------|-------------|------------|
| Heavy Machinegun    | 9       | 150  | 3      | Up to 150 |
| RPG (Unguided)     | 8+2 Fire   | 150  | Single Fire | 1     |
| Hand Grenade      | 8+2 Fire   | Thrown | Single Use | 1     |
| APC (Unarmed, Wheeled) | 10 (Run over) | N/A  | N/A     | N/A    |

**5th Dot:**

| Type             | Damage    | Range | Rate | Ammunition  |
|-------------------------------|---------------|--------|------|--------------|
| Mortar            | 7+3 Fire   | 6km  | 1  | Bring Shells |
| Phosphorous Grenade      | 6+4 Fire   | Thrown | 1  | Carried   |
| Shoulder-Fired Guided Missile | 7+3 Fire   | 4.5km | N/A | 1      |

**Sanctity:**\
This is part of the Chantry Entry in Lore of the Clans. It is now a
Background that Attaches to Domain. You must have Domain before you can
attach this Background. Currently, no PC possesses the Power Necessary
to Attain all 5 Dots. The effects of this Background stack atop any Dots
in Domain dedicated to Security.

**<u>...and Downtime:</u>**\
<u>Appropriate Backgrounds apply to your Downtime rolls.  Only 1 Background applies at a time.  Only one Difficulty Reduction applies at a time, regardless of source.  Backgrounds of 1 provide nothing.  Backgrounds of 2&3 provide 1 die.  A Background of 4 gives 2 dice.  A Background of 5 gives 3 Dice.  Cult must be applied as one of the Backgrounds it functions as, thus 2 Dots of Cult can’t be applied to any Downtime roll.</u>


### **18. Experience Points**

XP earned with a character must be spent on that character, except if
that character dies or is retired.

\
Your first Character Retirement/Death is free. All other Character
Retirements/Deaths carry penalties. If you Retire/Die within your first
month the penalty shall be 30% of your total. If you Retire/Die within
your second month the penalty shall be 20% of your total. If you
Retire/Die within your third month the penalty shall be 10% of your
total. Retiring after this period is free, and dying after this period
results in a 10% penalty. Round all decimals up, no matter how small.

Once Retired, your remaining XP can be spent on the next sheet that's
approved for play. Retired characters may *never* return to play. Staff
may reduce or overrule this if they feel that they have erred in the
difficulty of a challenge or a misunderstanding caused the death.

Characters made with XP may add up to 3 years to their age-as-a-vampire
per 1 XP on their starting sheet. This age has no mechanical benefits or
penalties except possibly for ghouls.

On the first day of your 7^th^ month of play on a Character, and every 3
months thereafter, you receive 10 successes towards any Downtime
Activity that your Character can accomplish. Extant Characters already
older than 3 months as of 5/3/21 are considered to be on the first day
of their 4^th^ month, thus your 10 successes will accrue on 8/3/21.

Rituals of any Blood Sorcery tradition are obtained by having access to
materials or teachers to impart the knowledge, and the expenditure of XP
equal to twice the Ritual's level (three times the Ritual's level for
Abyss Mysticism). If you do not meet one of the previous two
requirements you may not purchase Rituals nor advance out-of-Clan Blood
Sorcery until you obtain such access.

Backgrounds may be purchased with XP during creation at 3 XP per dot.
You may not purchase Status or Generation with XP while generating your
new character.

You may buy off Flaws from your sheet. It always costs XP in the amount
of twice the Flaw's rating and requires ST approval. Have a GOOD reason.

The Following Merits may be purchased with XP at a cost equal to twice
their rating, and if the Merit requires a specific context, you must
meet that context as a prerequisite:

|Advanced Tech (ST Approval)|Grand Library (Downtime Actions + XP)|
| :- | :- |
|Ambidextrous|Outside Haven (ST Approval)|
|Backup Identity|Peacemaker (ST Approval)|
|Brahmin|Personal Masquerade (ST Approval)|
|Code of Honor (Conscience 4)|Prized Patch (ST Approval)|
|Concentration|Quartermaster (ST Approval)|
|Connoisseur|Rep (ST Approval)|
|Early Riser|Sabbat Survivor|
|Eat Food|Sanction (ST Approval)|
|Elysium Regular|Sanctioned Witch (ST Approval)|
|Heart of Needles (Chimerstry 5 Required)|Scholar of Enemies|
|Impressive Restraint|Scholar of Others|
|Inoffensive to Animals (Animal Ken 2 Required)|Science Laboratory (Resources 4)|
|Iron Will (see Merit)|Secret Society Member (ST Approval)|
|Kashaph (see Merit)|Secret Stash (No Mentor)|
|Kshatriya (see Merit)|Sense Influence (ST Approval)|
|Language (may be bought multiple times)|Setite Initiate (ST Approval)|
|Lawman’s Friend|Skin of Porcelain (ST Approval)|
|Legerdemain (Subterfuge 2)|Sleep Unseen (Obfuscate 3 and Subterfuge 3)|
|Lesser Mark of the Beast (See Merit)|Slowed Degeneration (Conscience 5)|
|Light Sleeper (Willpower 8)|Spawning Pool (Downtime Actions)|
|Long Term Planning (Intelligence 3)|Thousand Meter Killer (ST Approval)|
|Loyalty (ST Approval)|Tunnel Rat|
|Master of the Masquerade (Perform [Appropriate Spec] 3, Subterfuge 3)|Vaishya (see Merit)|
|Unbondable (Must have had a Blood Bond fade In Game.)|Blush of Health|
|Mole (ST Approval)|Vicissitude Modifications (ST Approval)|
|Mute Devotion|Indelible (ST Approval)|
|<p>Enchanting Voice (Training: 6 Months, or</p><p>Vicissitude.)</p>|Occult Library (ST Approval)|
|Skald (Int 3, Occult 4 with Kindred Lore Spec)|False Reflection (Science 3 (Any))|
|Fatalist (ST Approval + Humanity must be 4 or less.)|King/Queen of Shadow (ST Approval + Must have Failed or Botched a Degeneration Roll.)|
|Calm Heart (Courage and Self Control 4)|Introspection (Intelligence and Perception 3)|
|Sugar Daddy (ST Approval)||

### **19. Disciplines, Arcanoi & Numina:**

To advance out-of-Clan Disciplines requires an instructor for every new
level of that power.

**All Damage Disciplines/Supernatural Abilities:** No Discipline or
supernatural ability that causes damage functions across planar
barriers, nor do they function remotely through any power that has the
capacity to expand or relocate your senses (Auspex, Way of the Spirit,
etc.). This is intended to prevent "Absent Assailants" and any
combination of mechanics that allows this is disallowed in this venue.
This does not prevent constructs or other similar instruments from
functioning, so long as those being assailed have some recourse, such as
the destruction of the danger source.

This rule does not apply to Wraiths in any way, manner, shape, or form,
under any circumstances.

**All Remote Sensing:** Rituals like Scry, Vision of Shadows, and
certain other powers allow their users to remotely sense other
locations. These powers interact with scenes badly and require
clarification.

When employing these powers, your sensing of the scene or subject begins
after your roll on the power activation, which must be laboriously
labeled in the dice rolling channel, and after an amount of Real Time
has elapsed equal to the casting time. Dice Rolls shall appear in the
following format: Rolling Syntax \# Attribute + Ability, Sorcery
Tradition, Ritual Name, Casting Time, Target. Also See; Seeing the
Unseen in this document for clarification on detection of these powers.

**<u>Auspex</u> & Aura Perception:** <u>Auspex Difficulty Reduction applies to only the first two levels of this Discipline up to your number of dots in this power.</u>

Kinfolk have their own unique aura and it follows
the concept closely with that of ghouls; patches of Garou aura mixing
among a mortal's aura. Garou possess a completely normal aura until
their first change is complete; from then on they have a full, normal
Garou aura in all their forms.

As Aura Perception can only be used on beings, not objects, it cannot
detect any sort of Blood Sorcery, Hedge Magic, or Mortal Sorcery,
operating on objects or areas. In Addition, the Magic Use entry in the
Side Bar on Page 136 of the Core will only trigger the sparkles in a
being's aura if said being is currently casting an effect, currently
under an effect, or under the effects of a Ritual. These sparkles will
not be present if the one being read is merely the target of a Ritual,
like Scry.

**Animalism:** Animalism 5 (Drawing Out the Beast) is now stricken from
play, and the 5^th^-dot power is replaced with Species Speech.

**All Abilities With Heat Based Names**: These Combos, Disciplines,
Merits and Abilities all apply aggravated damage as by fire. Any of
these abilities that aren't actually fire or amounts of hot material can
be soaked by armor. Burning Wrath, Burning Blade, etc\...

**Celerity:** The first rank of this power is not a breach of the
Masquerade.

**Obfuscate:** Obfuscate is now expanded to include a redirection of all
senses. It will also overcome and hide supernatural Flaws that would
otherwise reveal your presence. This, however, does not extend to
secondary effects, like plants dying due to Touch of Frost. If you wish
to detect a being using this Discipline or any power that invokes an
Auspex rating to overcome it, you must have that rating of Auspex and
succeed at the mechanics mentioned in Seeing the Unseen in Rule 22 of
this Document to receive any sensory input of the hidden being.
Equivalent detection powers must bear the same rating as the Auspex
needed to detect the power doing the hiding. Non-Auspex detection powers
do not benefit from additional levels/ranks above them because they lack
the mechanics presented in Auspex and Seeing The Unseen that Auspex
possesses.

**Obtenebration**: Levels 1 and 5 last for as long as you wish or until
sunrise, whichever is first. Other levels without specified durations
cease after combat ends, or 5 minutes if activated outside combat.

Levels 1 & 2 constitute attacks and have all the penalties assigned
thereto, such as breaking Unseen Presence and the like.

Level 2 does not apply -2 Stamina to the vampire that caused that
instance of the power.

Level 4 does not allow you to see through the Obtenebration of others.

All V20, and Dark Ages 20^th^ Anniversary Edition Abyss Mysticism
Rituals are available for purchase with the same restrictions placed on
obtaining said Rituals that appear elsewhere in these rules wherever
Rituals are discussed. Inceptions of new Abyss Rituals are allowed under
the systems provided for such under the Blood Sorcery section with the
following caveat: These Rituals will be sharply curtailed to follow the
form and function of AM Rituals already extant. Don't try to deal with
blood or cast wards unrelated to shadowy Abyss stuff, and other such
diversions. Your restraint and patience is appreciated.

**Psychic Projection:** To clarify the ephemeral nature as described in
the text: The Silver Cord stretches a few feet or so from the small of
the back and then vanishes into the Astral Mists; it exists on both the
Astral Form and the Physical Form and can be attacked at both those
locations by those capable of interacting with it: other projectors,
wraiths, etc. Only the Projector may see the entire length of their own
cord. All beings who are able to interact with the projector can see the
short lengths extending from projectors and their bodies upon casual
inspection. This objectively and obviously differentiates Psychic
Projectors from other types of beings to those in the know. Psychic
Projectors are a hazy, vaguely humanoid shape to all who perceive them
and possess no identifiable features to any sensory input.

All detection mechanics in the Psychic Projection section of V20 are
stricken and are now solely governed by Rule 22 in this Document.

Every time the scene you Projected to moves to a new location, you may
follow at no cost. If the scene splits you must choose one group or
individual to follow, also at no cost. Every time you move to a new
location or plane and you're not being forced to by the actions of
others as above, you must spend another Willpower and make another
Projection roll to maintain your state. A "location" may not be larger
in volume than a single high-rise building. Uncommonly, portals to the
Vulgate can be found, which lead to the rest of the infinities. [*This
page*](https://whitewolf.fandom.com/wiki/Astral_Reaches) (have an
adblocker) is a good, generalized overview of what can be found there.
The Shadowlands, the Umbra, and the Astral do not bleed over into each
other, and the M20 delineation of differing Penumbrae for the High,
Middle, and Dark Umbra is employed here.

You may Project to the location of a being or object, using the
following Difficulties:

-   **Difficulty 5**: very closely known, very familiar, have a piece of
    him/her/it.
-   **Difficulty 7**: Passing acquaintance; Picture(3 Successes if a
    hand rendered image); Psychic reading.
-   **Difficulty 9**: Verbal or written description only. Having none of
    these makes the task impossible.

**Telepathy:** To detect who is sending thoughts into your head with
this power, you must gain more successes on a resisted roll using your
Perception + Awareness vs the telepath's Manipulation + Subterfuge.

You may 'let someone into your mind'. By agreeing to do so, you make a
Willpower roll, difficulty 7. Every success you acquire lowers the other
person\'s Difficulty on their Telepathy roll by 1. Minimum 2. You may
not be coerced or Dominated (et al) into this consent in any way. If the
Telepath takes advantage of this mechanic, they can only see what the
person's mind allows, but all that the Telepath sees will be 100%
accurate reflections of the true events that person experienced not
withstanding memory alteration or erasure.

**Vicissitude**: Up to 7 + Medicine Dots worth of the Vicissitude
Modifications Merit can be granted by users of the Discipline. The
modifications mentioned in that Merit are not the only ones possible.
PCs do not start with this extra knowledge not found under the Merit; it
must be gained through experimentation or granted to you by Elders in
the know. See the House Rules stand-alone document entitled "Vicissitude
Modifications" for elucidation. If you have the Eidetic Memory Merit,
and you have gotten a good look from multiple angles with your own
senses (Mundane or Supernatural), you may replicate someone's appearance
using an Intelligence + Medicine roll Difficulty 6.

**Horrid Form:** When activated, this power lasts until loss of
consciousness, torpor, magical cancellation, until the user dismisses
it, or until the next dawn. The Attribute bonuses both exceed
Generational maxima and stack with Blood Buffing. All unarmed damage
while in this form is Lethal.

**Spirit’s Touch:** The following Difficulties shall be used:

* **4:** Less than a week
* **5:** Less than a month
* **6:** Less than a year
* **7:** Less than a decade
* **8:** Less than a century
* **9:** Less than a millenium
* **10:** Less than 13.8 Billion Years

The text for the 5^th Success is stricken and now reads:\
-	5 Successes\
-	This provides anything you want to know regarding the object's usage
history in connection with it's previous owner. Objects do not contain
information about events they weren't used for or during. Only very
scant visual information is gained, enough for a positive ID on the
person using the object, and the person or thing the object is being
used on. To read impressions from previous owners adds +2 Difficulty for
each previous owner before the most recent. Corpses are objects for the
purposes of this power, and they are considered to be owned by who last
used them, for whatever purpose. If no one has used the corpse since its
death, it is owned by the decedent, whatever the status of their soul.

**Dominate:**

When Dominate is combined with Blood of Potency, the Dominator uses his
current Generation for anything based on it. However, lingering effects
decay to the Dominator's natural Generation once the Potency effect
ends. When this happens, any Dominate effects upon those of lower
Generation than the Dominator immediately end.

You may 'let someone into your mind'. By agreeing to do so, you make a
Willpower roll, difficulty 7. Every success you acquire lowers the other
person's Difficulty on their Dominate roll by 1, minimum 2. You may not
be coerced or Dominated (et al) into this consent in any way. There is
no way to ensure that the Dominator will only implant or remove that
which you agreed upon. Caveat Emptor.

**Shape of the Beast:** When in any Flight or War form that has teeth,
you still have access to your Vampire Fangs and you cause The Kiss when
you bite. In bat form you may only drink 1 Blood Point every 2 combat
turns. War Forms may drink 3 per combat turn, as is standard for RAW.

**Numina, Hedge Magic, Etc:** PC Mortals purchase Numina the same way
Vampires purchase Out Of Clan Disciplines for both Freebie Points and
XP. If such a mortal is Embraced, all these Freebies and XP fall into a
Pool which may only be spent on Disciplines or Supernatural Merits that
directly affect your person.

**Celerity & Temporis / Temporal Exclusion:** Due to the way it was
incepted (Dark Ages Temporis Description), you may not possess Dots in
Temporis and Celerity at the same time. You must choose permanently; One
or the Other.

**Summoning Beings, Creating Constructs, ETC:** You may summon/construct
a number of beings equal to (Your Summoning Dice Pool)/2, Round ALL
Decimals Down. Swarms proceed up their chart in the Core for each one of
the resulting number you invest in such a swarm.

**Reflections:** Any supernatural power that relies on reflections to
function overcomes the Lasombra Clan Flaw and Cast No Reflection Flaw.
They function upon such beings normally. However, Lasombra cannot use
this feature to see themselves; the Curse is not so easily denied.

**Divination 1 (Hunters Hunted 2):** The entire text is stricken, and
the power now provides a +3 on Initiative Rolls for One Hour per Success
achieved.

**Hacktivism, Technomancy, Technological Rituals, Ect:** Carna doesn't
happen until 1998, so anything she created, and all derivations of and
from her work don't yet exist. The Path of Technomancy and all Paths and
Rituals having to do with computers, networking and computational
encryption do not yet exist, nor can the be incepted.

**Path of the Focused Mind and Directing Ahriman's Lance** do not apply
to Reflexive Rolls.

**All Mind and Emotional Control Disciplines:** This includes Presence,
Dominate, Path of Corruption, and all similar effects. It is important
to realize that when you fall under these effects, your character does
not realize it, as this would make useless the powers themselves. In no
way shall a Characrer express that their hand is being forced, but
instead, there shall be a focus on internalizing the effects, as though
they arise from within the Self. Failure to do this will be considered
metagaming.

**All Transformational Disciplines:** When activated, these powers lasts
until loss of consciousness, torpor, magical cancellation, until the
user dismisses them, or until the next dawn. These powers include, but
are not limited to: Shape of the Beast, Mistform, Bloodform, Tenebrous
Form, Black Metamorphosis, Skin of the Adder, Form of the Cobra, Horrid
Form, and all similar powers.

**Scorpion's Touch:** The first paragraph of the System portion of this
power refers to a direct, unarmed, hand-to-hand attack with poisonous
blood welled up from the vampire's pores. Clenched opponents are
automatically hit. The Blood spent in this attack is the number of
points converted to poison and this blood must be spent at the time of
the attack, and is thus limited by Generational Maxima as well as the
user's current Stamina, which means the lower of the two numbers is what
the user is limited by. If this attack misses, then the blood loses all
supernatural properties as well as sympathies useful for Blood Sorcery,
and just makes a mess.

When using this power to stave off being fed from, or Diablerie, this
poison stays within the Kindred's body for a scene and is *always* the
first blood to be consumed by would be drinkers or harvesters. The user
may build up however much poison within her as she likes over multiple
activations, however, it takes up the Blood Pool of the user on a one to
one basis. Example: Deadly Dan is 7^th^ Generation and uses this
mechanic to store 5 points of poison in his body; he thus now has 15
vitae and 5 points of poison in his body totaling 20. This poison
becomes harmless if it exits the user's body unless it is drunk by
another directly from the user's body, in which case it has its stated
deleterious effects, which are entirely dependent on how much the
hapless drinker drank. This poison has no other uses and dissipates
harmlessly at the end of the scene and does not restore any Blood Points
to the user.

When this power is employed to coat a weapon, its potency lasts for a
scene, and the weapon can hold a number of poisoned blood points equal
to twice its Damage Bonus and this amount is not limited by other
factors. A weapon can be completely coated to its full capacity over
multiple rounds, if necessary. The user of this power has a very tiny,
limited control over this poison and may choose how many blood points
are delivered once a successful strike has been delivered and actually
does damage after the victim soaks.

If the user of this power scores 5 or more successes on his activation
roll, that text is stricken and now reads, "One Year" for the duration
of Stamina Loss.

**<u>The Weeping of Kruchina:</u>** <u>This text supersedes the original text.

The Koldun may instill a crushing despair or nigh-suicidal depression in her enemy. 

System: For one turn per success, the target is overwhelmed by intense misery and weeps uncontrollably.  Victims lose one Blood Point each combat turn and this can have serious consequences for mortals, ghouls, kinfolk and werewolves.  Victims cannot engage in any action that requires concentration, and while they can act, they can’t take any actions that would also be prohibited by Frenzy.</u>

**<u>Wound Sculpting:</u>** <u>LotC 243, works on yourself, other vampires, werewolves, ghouls, kinfolk, mortals and animals.</u>

### **20. Minor Adjudications**

Where the RAW contradicts itself, the Administrator will make a ruling
and add it to this lexicon:

-   Any time descriptive text contradicts anything in the "System"
    section in any part of any book, the System Section shall always
    take precedence.
-   Auspex Difficulty reduction does not apply to combat difficulties.
-   [*Einarr
    Flies-Like-Smoke*](https://whitewolf.fandom.com/wiki/Einarr_Flies-Like-Smoke)
    is now just a normal human and all Lore changes and consequences of
    that shall be considered as/if they become relevant.
-   During Frenzy you may only use Disciplines and Vampiric Base powers
    that a lizard-like intelligence could use. No Blood Sorcery,
    Entrancement, Spirit's Touch, or Forgetful Mind, for example. On the
    other hand, Dread Gaze, The Physical Three, Unseen Presence, Blood
    Buffing, and similar things are allowed. Reach consent with your
    fellow Players, or seek out Staff if you cannot.
-   Mortals with 9 & 10 Willpower and the Iron Will Merit may resist the
    Kiss for a number of Combat Rounds equal to the number of successes
    they gain on a Self-Control Roll, difficulty 9. At the end of these
    rounds, the mortal may roll again, and so on. When the mortal fails
    or botches, they succumb to the Kiss for the duration, on a botch,
    they are nonsensical with euphoria for the rest of the scene.
-   Traps are set with the following system: First, roll Dexterity +
    Subterfuge to conceal it if applicable, then roll Perception +
    Alertness to have it function properly upon your victim, lastly
    damage will be determined by the weapon type. Guns use their base
    damage, pits and falls use the falling damage entry, spring loaded
    systems use a number of damage dice equal to your successes on an
    Intelligence + Survival roll.
-   The Ventrue and Giovanni Clan weaknesses place a +2 difficulty to
    all hunting rolls.
-   Maximum blood absorption rate is 5 per round.
-   As static, timeless creatures, vampires return as closely to the
    state in which they were Embraced as possible. A simple mechanic
    involves considering how many health levels of damage a character
    sustained for a given change. If the change causes no appreciable
    damage -- shaving, cutting one's hair, piercing a body part,
    getting a tattoo -- the vampire's body eliminates the change during
    the day. Hair grows back, piercings push themselves out, tattoo ink
    rises to the skin's surface, etc. This is why the Indelible Merit
    exists.
-   Fire Damage from non-fire sources (Burning Wrath, Burning Blade,
    etc) can be soaked with armor, and that armor is destroyed normally
    as stated in the RAW.
-   Do not roll for Rötschreck for fire even nominally under your
    Character's control unless you Botch the roll for its use.
    "Relatively innocuous stimuli, or stimuli directly under the
    character's control, are unlikely to induce Rötschreck." Core, p307
-   Vampires, their remains after Final Death (if any), vitae (with any
    of the supernatural qualities listed in the "decay" chain above),
    etc, et al, all turn to ash upon exposure to even the most tenuous
    of sunlight.
-   Drugs do not interact with supernatural powers. That entire section
    in the Core is stricken.
-   You may choose to forego a roll and suffer the consequences for its
    failure. Among other things, this is to more easily allow Players to
    switch from Humanity to a Path, or between Paths of Enlightenment.
-   As written in RAW, normal animals won't approach Vampires who don't
    have Animal Ken or Animalism, thus, animals can detect vampires.
    This sense has a 6 meter range and is easily defeated by any
    Discipline, Ritual, Merit, etc, et al, that hides vampires or their
    natures from mortals in any way.
-   In the "Spending Blood Pool" section of the V20 core, on page 269,
    there is a section that deals with "Blushing" though that word isn't
    specifically used. The system is slightly vague, so this
    clarification shall apply: Each individual trait you wish to
    replicate for a scene costs the specified amount of blood. Eg, If
    you wanted to be warm, have a heartbeat, and keep food down for a
    scene, you must pay that cost three times.
-   Traits, in and of themselves, may not rise above 10. This does not
    restrict bonus dice from increasing the Trait pool you might roll.
    Example: CheeseMonsterX uses Blood of Potency to reduce his
    Generation to 4, Blood Buffs himself to 10 Strength, and activates
    Horrid Form. His Strength is still just 10, however, he also has
    Potence 2, so he would roll 12 Dice of Strength if called upon.
-   If you have at least 3 Dots of Medicine, you may attempt to improve
    someone's Appearance by 1, and only 1. You may only grant this bonus
    once, and you may only grant it to mortals, Ghouls, and Kinfolk, who
    may not have an Appearance greater than 5. The roll is
    Intelligence + Medicine, Difficulty 6, and you must obtain successes
    equal to twice the number of starting Appearance Dots of your
    patient. Example: Vera Vanity wants to go from Appearance 3 to 4
    using this mechanic. Her surgeon must make the roll above and score
    6 successes. Failure results in no change. A Botch results in
    permanently losing a number of Appearance dots equal to the Botch.
-	<u>While staked, you still spend one blood (or one health level if you
	have no blood) to awaken each night and you are conscious for each
	night that you awaken.  If you have no blood, you may exist in a
	state of staked frenzy...make your rolls.  This is an exception to
	the rule that you cannot spend blood while staked.  You may enter
	voluntary torpor while staked and that rule-set takes over from that
	point forward.</u>

### **21. On the Blood Bond**

Imagine the being you'd die for, or die to bring back. This is how you
feel about the vampire you're bound to. It is not to be ignored or taken
lightly.

At a third-level bond, attempting to do any of the following things
invokes the mechanics listed on pg. 36 of Ghouls and Revenants, which 
you must defeat in order to follow through: disobeying in any way, 
physically resisting, scheming against your regnant (with actions, 
words or thoughts), harming or destroying your regnant's property, 
relationships or interests, divulging your regnant's secrets, and 
attempting to directly harm your regnant mentally, socially, physically, 
economically or psychically. The Difficulty of the Extended Challenge is 
the number of drinks the Thrall has had from the Regnant up to a Maximum 
of 9.

All mentions of a Bond being maintained by proximity, sight, or any sort
of non-blood contact are stricken.

### **22. Seeing the Unseen**

This subsection, found on page 142 if the V20 Core is completely
replaced by the following text:

Whenever one being uses supernatural powers to create illusions, hide
from, or spy on another with his expanded senses, extraplanar presence,
physical presence, remote viewing sensor, etc, this can be detected by
Auspex or other powers or items that reveal hidden things. If the power
being used to befuddle/spy has more Dots/Ritual Levels than the power
being used to detect it, then she who is hidden remains so.

If the Detection Power has equal or more dots than the
Hiding/Observing/Illusory power, the Players make a Resisted Action
(page 252). She who detects rolls Perception + Awareness, and he who is
detected rolls Wits + Obfuscate Dots, or Manipulation + Chimerstry Dots,
or Intelligence + Occult Dots for Blood Sorcery. Chimerstry can still be
broken by the "Proof Mechanic" found in that section. Non-Auspex
Detection powers function at the Dot or Ritual Level they are at and are
not improved by having higher Dots or Rituals in that power. Non-Auspex
Detection Powers that are Combo Disciplines function at a number of
equivalent Auspex Dots as determined by the XP Cost of the Combo Power:\
1-5 XP=1 Dot. 6-10 XP=2 Dots. 11-15 XP=3Dots. 16-20 XP=4 Dots. 21-25XP=5
Dots.

If the Detection power is of a higher rank than the Hiding Power, the
difference between the two shall be the Detector's Difficulty Reduction
on the Resisted Action. This overrides the Heightened Senses bonus in
that section of Auspex.

Extraplanar beings appear as vague shapes resembling their real ones and
no positive ID may be made. Remote Viewing powers are detected as a
small magical sensor in the area about the size of a fist, their user is
not revealed, and they are immune from harm and the effects of
supernatural powers. Extraplanar beings who are on or can travel to any
of the three near-Earth planes by virtue of their creature type are
assumed to be using a Hiding Power equal to the highest Dot Rank of
their most developed Discipline/Gift/Arcanoi. In the Resisted Roll,
these beings use Manipulation + Stealth.

This section overrides all specific mentions and carve-outs contained in
specific powers and sections in all of V20.

### **23. Abilities & Attributes**

<u>An Attribute Specialization can be changed with a Standard 15 Success Downtime action and 3 Experience Points.  Your dice pools will vary.</u>

Specializations: Once you reach the 5^th Dot in any Ability, you may
purchase additional Specializations for 3 XP, and a 15 success Downtime
to represent your dedication to study and practice.

**Occult:**

**Common Knowledge if you are a Vampire:\
**You understand the basics of the necessities (blood) and the banes
(fire, sunlight, and wooden stake) of vampiric existence. You're
proficient with the use of your base vampiric abilities and your In Clan
Disciplines. The Blood Bond, creating Ghouls, the need to maintain your
Humanity and Wassail are all clear to you. You're aware of the
Traditions of your Sect, the Clans, and Caitiff. The official positions
of your Sect and their roles reside in your memory along with the
concept of Generation\...and its implications. Your character is assumed
to know these things unless you specifically make them ignorant. Your
character definitely knows these things if you have even 1 Dot in Occult
and thus you cannot make your character ignorant of them.

**Dot One:**

You've learned the general history of the Sects, their formation, basic
rules, that the Biblical Caine is supposedly the first Vampire and that
the Clans all trace back to powerful progenitors. The Embrace,
Diablerie, Torpor, and the various supernatural decays of vitae are all
known to you, as well as their consequences. Other supernatural
creatures fall under your awareness like werewolves, fairies, ghosts and
so forth. Their weaknesses are unknown to you, however.

**Dot Two:**

You have a studied history of the Sects, their formations, goals,
practices and.....Traditions. You've heard of and maybe even read a few
pages of the Book of Nod. You're fairly knowledgeable about the History
of the Clans and their weaknesses. The weaknesses of other supernaturals
are within your memory as well as a vague overview of what they are and
why they exist. Gehenna is dimly at the edge of your awareness.

**Dot Three:**

The existence of rare supernaturals and vampiric bloodlines has been
discovered by you, though you're only dimly aware of them in any sense.
The Planar cosmology has made some faint imprints upon your mind.
Scenarios of Gehenna are topics of some confidence you can discuss or
teach. You've got a half way decent idea of the contents of the Book of
Nod and you know of the Autarkis, Tal'Mahe'Ra and other small Sects
though you know not their whats and whys. Golconda and what it vaguely
means is around in your mind.

**Dot Four:**

Bloodlines are pretty well known to you, including their history,
appearance and origin. The Planes and their arrangement are subjects
you've studied closely and fewer surprises await you there. The smaller
sects previously mentioned are areas you can discuss with easy
confidence. Golconda is a topic you can converse about with comfort and
accuracy. You've probably GOT a copy of the Book of Nod.

**Dot Five:**

"Hey, Staff Member, do I know\..."\
"Yes."

### **24\. Blood Sorcery**

(Thaumaturgy, Abyss Mysticism, Koldunism, Dur'An'Ki, Necromancy, etc)

**All Rituals:** All Rituals from All Traditions now take 5 minutes per
level to cast as generalized from the Thaumaturgical guidelines found on
pg. 230 of the V20 Core. Some Traditions do not specify this casting
time. Some Rituals, like Esilio, Clinging of the Insect and Smoking
Mirror have carve outs that specify extremely short casting times to
make them of use. These apply for only their casting times.

**Difficulty Reductions:** Only one Difficulty Reduction Mechanic may
apply to casting Path Dots of Blood Sorcery. Only two Difficulty
Reduction Mechanics may apply to activating Rituals of Blood Sorcery. In
either case, if more Mechanics are operating than allowed, the Player
may choose.

**Anarch Sorcery:**

Rituals and Paths labeled as Anarch Sorcery are stolen from other Blood
Sorcery traditions. The list below is also a complete list of what
Rituals Anarch Blood Sorcerers have access to. They are divided up below
and these Rituals are available to those Traditions for In Clan XP
Costs. Some rituals appear in multiple traditions and this is
intentional. Similar problems breed similar solutions, convergent
evolution, etc...

-   **Assamite Sorcery:** Ward vs Vitae, Blood Crystal, Bloody Mary,
    Calling Card, Beat Your Way To Glory, Baron Zaraguin's Sting
-   **Koldunism:** Water Walking, Bloody Mary
-   **Necromancy:** Sanctify the Temple, All Old Skool Rituals, Bloody
    Mary
-   **Obtenebration:** Bloody Mary
-   **Setite Sorcery:** Flatline, Enfolding The Believers, Transcending
    Barriers Through Love, The Pursuit of Apotheosis, Sanctify the
    Temple, Bloody Mary
-   **Tremere Thaumaturgy:** Iron Body, All Hacktivist Rituals are
    Incepted in Clan Tremere, BFU(though the latter two aren't available
    for Play)

**Blood Rage:** The difficulty increase vs Frenzy imposed by this power
lasts for the rest of the current Scene. This power can bring Kindred
out of Torpor by forcing blood to be spent upon Rising and is not
limited by the time constraints of Torpor; this is a reinforcement of
the text as already written.

**Cauldron of Blood:** The activation roll for this power is also how
much damage it does, thus it is an Aggravated Damage Roll and is limited
to 10 Dice if it is aggravated upon the creature it is being used upon,
15 if Lethal upon the victim, or Unlimited if Bashing.

**Failures and Botches:** All Blood Sorcery arts are difficult and
unforgiving. Failures on Base Powers (Blood Rage, Compel Soul, etc.) and
Rituals indicate the magic fails and you're aware of it. The following
two charts will be referred to when Botches are scored on these rolls.

|**Base Powers:**||**Rituals:**||
| :- | :- | :- | :- |
|**1**|Lose two BP.|**1**|Lose two BP.|
|**2**|Lose two temporary WP.|**2**|Lose two temporary WP.|
|**3**|Suffer 3 Lethal Wounds as though from a blade, no Soak.|**3**|All blood sorcery rolls for the rest of the night are made at +2 Difficulty.|
|**4**|Suffer 3 Aggravated Wounds as though from Fire, no Soak, no exceptions. Attempt to resist Rötschreck at Difficulty 7 (being burned).|**4**|You are convinced the Ritual took effect and all your senses confirm this, even though the magic actually failed.|
|**5**|Lose one permanent WP.|**5**|You have released an angry Demon equal to the power level of the Ritual. Consult the STs.|

**Incorporeal Passage:** This Ritual also makes any damage you deal out
incorporeal, and thus useless unless used against an opponent also under
this Ritual.

**Principal Focus of Vitae Infusion:** Blood transformed in this manner
for others as mentioned in the systems do respond to the mental command
of the being it was made for.

**Setite Sorcery**: Where RAW does not specify what systems are used to
invoke these powers, this branch of Blood Sorcery shall use the system
described for Thaumaturgy and its Rituals located on pg. 213 & 230 of
the V20 Core, respectively.

As Setite Sorcery is, like far too many things in V20, ill defined, and
this section shall serve to correct that oversight, understatement
intended.

**Setite Sorcery Paths:**

Setite Blood Sorcerers shall have access to all the Paths listed in the
V20 Guide, but note that there is a title error on two of them. The Akhu
and Wanga titles should be transposed in the Guide. Also available to
Setite Blood Sorcerers are the Paths of Weather Control, Levinbolt,
Hands of Destruction, Corruption, Curses, Father\'s Vengeance, Evil Eye,
Blood, Revelations of Eden and Revelations of the Duat.

**Setite Sorcery Rituals:**

Setite Blood Sorcerers have access to all the Rituals specified in the
V20 Guide as well as the following:

-   Level 1: Bind the Accusing Tongue, Devil's Touch, Domino of Life,
Encrypt Missive, Engaging the Vessel of Transference, Impressive Visage,
Incantation of the Shepherd, Learning the Mind Enslumbered, Widow's
Spite

-   Level 2: Craft Bloodstone, Donning the Mask of Shadows, Eyes of Babel,
Eyes of the Nighthawk, Hidden Haven, Illusion of Peaceful Death, The
Jinx, Machine Blitz, Oinos of Dionysus, Vitality Hack

-   Level 3: A Touch of Nightshade, Amulet of the Mnemosyne, The Bottled
Voice, Dante's Urban Legend, Incorporeal Passage, Inscription, Mirror of
Second Sight, Sanguine Trail, Translocation of the Vessel

-   Level 4: Bone of Lies, The Curse Belated, Heart of Stone, Mirror Walk,
Scry, Stolen Kisses

-   Level 5: Abandon the Fetters, Blood Contract, Cobra's Favor

Setite Blood Sorcerers can incept new Rituals using the same system
elsewhere in this document.

**The Revelations of Eden:** This Setite Sorcery Path's permanent
effects now last two Real Time weeks and the Rating/Permanent Dot then
returns.

**Armor of Diamond Serenity (Level One Sadhana Ritual):** This Ritual, 
and any Inceptions even remotely resembling it, does not apply it’s 
Difficulty Reduction to any type of Blood Sorcery roll.  In addition, 
if you are Blood Buffed when this Ritual, or any Inception even remotely 
like it, takes effect upon you, all your Buffed Physical stats return 
to their Unbuffed values.</u>

**All Powers That Result In Permanent Dot Loss:** With the exception of
The Revelations of Eden directly above this entry, these powers now last
One Year and One Day, and the Dot returns to the victim. Instances of
these powers are limited to the number of Dots the User has in Occult.
 
Example: Meenee the Vampire has 5 Occult, and has taken away 1 Dot from 
Kim, 2 Dots from Allen, 1 Dot from Dan, and 1 Dot from Jerry.  He has 
reached his limit and to use one of these powers on Karen he must 
sacrifice one of the other currently operating effects.  He may choose 
which one with an act of Will and this does not require a roll or an action.
<u>If a Being has more than one Power that results in Dot Loss, each power
may be applied a number of times equal to their Occult.  Thus, if Meenee
the Vampire has 5 Occult, and two Dot Loss powers, he may apply 5 instances
of both powers to run concurrently.</u> 

These powers leave behind arcane traces which may be tracked with Auspex or 
similar powers.  The difficulty is 9 (7 for Thaumaturgical Sight) on a roll 
of Occult+Auspex (or Thaumaturgy+Occult if using Thaumaturgical Sight), 
tracking takes 1 night per attempt, 5 successes need be accumulated over an 
unlimited number of nights, botches do not subtract from previous successes 
gained.  This information gives the identity of the caster and his rough 
location (to within a Scene’s definition).

**Wards** cannot be bypassed through planar travel, transformation,
teleportation, possession or other such methods. If you are on the
outside of an applicable ward, and you wind up on the inside of a ward,
you must defeat the mechanics mentioned in the ward to travel to that
location or its equivalent on any plane of existence. If you fail to
defeat the mechanics, a wall of force stops your progress or from
interacting with the object. This also applies to any projectiles you
throw, fire or release, as well as to all of your abilities, powers,
etc, et al. Warding Circles cannot be stacked atop each other and
require at least 2 feet between their active fields. Wards on objects
may bear as many different wardings as can be cast, but cannot have
multiple castings of the same ward against the same creature.

Wards are also Programmable in the following ways: The original caster
of a ward may make himself immune to any wards he casts as well as
anyone else present at the initial casting. The original caster may also
add others to an existing ward's immunity with another casting of the
same ward taking the same amount of time but having no other costs. The
original caster may remove another's immunity to a ward, including his
own with the same process as the previous sentence and this does not
require the presence of the being being removed.

**Way of Spirit (RotB p156):** Auspex 1-4 functions through this
Discipline. To activate this power, roll Perception + Occult; Difficulty
is (Dots) + 3.

**Way of Sorrows (RotB p157):** To activate these powers, roll Charisma
+ Occult; Difficulty (Dots) + 3.

**Koldunic Sorcery (Black Hand p169, TOS p45):** Only the Kraina and 
their Rituals trigger the Kraina’s madness in practitioners of Koldunism. Ways and their Rites have no such effect.

**Dur'An'Ki**

Assamite Blood Sorcery is poorly and vaguely defined in V20. Thusly,
Assamite Sorcerers have access to everything mentioned in their section
on page 440 of the V20 Core, the sidebar found there, and all the
Tremere Thaumaturgical Rituals except those listed below:

* Bind the Accusing Tongue
* Blood into Water
* Blood Rush
* Chime of Unseen Spirits
* Devil’s Touch
* Domino of Life
* Impressive Visage
* Incantation of the Shepherd
* Learning the Mind Enslumbered
* Purify Blood
* Purity of Flesh
* Sense The Mystical
* Wake With Evening’s Freshness
* Widow’s Spite
* Communicate with Kindred Bond Mate
* Eyes of Babel
* Eyes of the Nighthawk
* Hidden Haven
* The Jinx
* Machine Blitz
* Oinos of Dionysus
* Rutor’s Hands
* Recure of the Homeland
* Vitality Hack
* Whispers of the Ghost
* A Touch of Nightshade
* Amulet of the Mnemosyn
* Brotherhood of the Cup
* Dante’s Urban Legend
* Pavis of Foul Presence
* Ward of the Winged Sepulcher
* Sanguine Assistant
* Soul of the Homonculus
* Transubstantiation of the Seven
* Innocence of the Child’s Heart
* Mirror Walk
* Stolen Kisses
* Track Transgressor
* Asymmetrical Reproduction
* At Our Command It Breathes
* Blood Contract
* Cobra’s Favor
* Mirror of Blood
* Nectar of the Bitter Rose
* Ward vs Technology

**Infusion of Khalif:** This Ritual is available to all Blood Sorcery 
Traditions and grants its mechanical effects to the user while employing 
her particular Tradition on all appropriate rolls.

**Necromancy** does not cause Sequela (ToS p52) in this Venue.

**Lifeless Tongues** lasts one Scene.

**Vitreous Path 5, Night Cry:** The buff lasts for one scene, and the 
damage done by the offensive use of this power does One Aggravated Wound 
per success to each target. Example: The Player spends what is required 
for 2 targets and gets 4 successes, thus they both take 4 aggravated wounds.

**Combo Disciplines:** Necromancy is separate from the other Blood Sorceries 
for these purposes and has specific Combos that require it. (Lore of the 
Bloodlines pages 49 and 71). All the other Blood Sorceries meet the 
“Thaumaturgy” requirement listed in the Combo’s Requirements unless it 
specifies a specific Path; in which case you must have that Path or your 
Tradition’s equivalent.

**Thaumaturgical Sight:** This Combo Discipline does not automatically reveal Thaumaturgically hidden beings. Use Seeing the Unseen in this document.

**Calling the Hungry Shade:** If Successful, the Shade is under the caster’s 
control. The controlling caster for group Rituals must be decided when the 
Ritual is begun. Shades remain until destroyed, or dismissed by the caster, 
who must be conscious to do so. After the controlling caster falls to daysleep, 
(s)he must make a control roll to keep the Shade under control for the day. 
This roll is the same as if the controlling caster performed the Ritual 
him/herself. The controlling caster must make a separate roll for each Shade 
they wish to keep under control. The controlling caster may spend a Willpower 
for a success on these rolls. (System Changed Slightly for this Update.)

**Revelations of Midgard 5:** Apep’s Transformation: This now activates as 
though it was a normal level 5 power under the rules of this Path, or what it 
defaults to under this document. Its cost is 3 Blood, all Physical Attributes 
increase by 4, Social Attributes drop to Zero, Strength can be used for 
Intimidation Rolls, All Damage Rolls gain a 2 Dice Bonus and Unarmed Attacks 
to Lethal Damage. This power’s Attribute Bonuses exceed Generational Maxima 
and stacks with Blood Buffing.

**Mirror of Second Sight**: The items made by this Ritual can be used by others.

**Abyss Mysticism:** Use specific rolls in specific rituals if they have 
them, but fall back to V20 modern AM Wits+Occult if there are no specific rolls mentioned. The minion limit is the pool used from the system block, or 
Wits+Occult if there are no rolls in the system block.

#### **24b Incepting Novel Rituals/Adapting Rituals From Other Traditions:** As 
stated in the Character Creation section, you must have 5 Dots in a Blood 
Sorcery Path and have one Ritual at each level to interact with these 
mechanics.

Incepting or Adapting Rituals is a function of Downtime. To do either 
requires a variable number of successes for each Level: 10/15/20/25/30. 
The pool to roll is Intelligence + Occult. Once you acquire your successes, 
the Ritual is now recorded in a form of your choice that any Sorcerer from 
your Tradition may review and learn the Ritual on their own if you don’t 
choose to destroy the notes after learning it. Regardless, once you’ve 
codified the Ritual, you must then spend the appropriate amount of Experience 
Points to add it to your sheet like any other Ritual.

Adapting secret Rituals from other Traditions requires you to have Occult 5
 to know about them. These include, but aren’t limited to: Pavis of Foul 
 Presence, From Marduk’s Throat, Eternal Mask, Nectar of the Bitter Rose, 
 and so on.

Thoughts and Advice from your Storyteller: The approval process will be more 
or less difficult depending on the scope and reach of your new Ritual. 
Replicating the effects of RAW Rituals already extant will almost certainly 
be approved. Those that are variations on Rituals extant that affect different 
creatures, things or powers should be pretty easy. Completely novel Rituals 
that don’t resemble anything already in RAW will, of course, be much more 
difficult to adjudicate. Your patience is requested.


### **25. Daniel’s Boons**
Should some of you recognize this system, it’s lifted from the BNS LARP book as 
it better reflects the feel and tone that I wish to strike. It is identical to 
that system, so if you wish to read it there, you can. Boons break apart and 
combine in threes. 3 Trivials equals a minor and vice versa. This rises all the 
way to Major Boons, but 3 Major Boons cannot be combined to a Blood, nor 3 
Bloods to a Life. Those stand apart because of their gravity.

#### Trivial Boon

A trivial boon is a simple favor owed for receiving a minor service, political consideration, or forgiving a social *faux pas*. This type of boon should be 
freely offered and accepted, much like a business card. Payment of a trivial 
boon should involve simple one-time favors or services that take no more than 
a single game session or a night to complete.

**Example Scenarios Involving Trivial Boons:**

- Making a formal social introduction to an important Kindred.
- Covering a potentially embarrassing social faux pas in front of the Harpy.
- Warning someone about a potential danger to them.
- Supporting a political or social agenda that doesn’t undermine your own position.
- Assisting with a task for the evening, such as working security for a salon.
- Leveraging one of your disciplines to aid your creditor’s cause.

#### Minor Boon

A minor boon represents a favor that requires a significant amount of time or 
effort, but low risk. Payment of a minor boon should involve simple one-time 
favors or services that take no more than two game sessions or a month 
(whichever is longer) to complete.

**Example Scenarios Involving Minor Boons:**

- Helping someone find safe passage through a hostile city.
- Leveraging backgrounds and influences on someone’s behalf.
- Revealing crucial information.
- Disposing of a threat without risking life or blood.
- Teaching low levels of common disciplines.

#### Major Boon

A major boon represents a large debt that requires a good deal of time or 
resources to pay, which may involve risking your personal political or 
social capital. Payment of a major boon should involve one-time favors or 
services that take no more than six game sessions or three months 
(whichever is longer) to complete.

**Example Scenarios Involving Major Boons:**

- Leveraging your backgrounds and influences to someone else’s agenda.
- Teaching advanced levels of a common discipline or low levels of an uncommon or rare discipline.
- Revealing a major secret that is potentially very damaging.
- Purchasing a major business, building, or land.
- Aligning yourself with a political or social agenda that potentially harms your own position with your clan and allies, such as supporting someone’s bid for praxis.

#### Blood Boon

A blood boon is a sacred debt that can only be repaid by shedding blood on 
behalf of the creditor. The debtor will betray allies, ruin her reputation, 
or place herself in a potentially life-threatening situation in order to 
further the agenda of the creditor, thus the name “blood boon.”

**Example Scenarios Involving Blood Boons:**

- Coming to another’s aid and suffering grievous injury.
- Betraying clan secrets or teaching proprietary disciplines, knowing that you will be labeled a traitor.
- Assisting in a praxis seizure via force, and killing allies to see it done.
- Holding off a fearsome enemy so that the creditor can flee.
- Murdering a rival or an enemy knowing that you might be blood hunted if you are caught.

#### Life Boon

A life boon is a rare boon that should only be given in circumstances when 
a vampire saves another vampire from an external threat that will destroy 
the life of the debtor. A powerful vampire cannot simply threaten a weak 
enemy and claim a life boon for not destroying her. Owing a life boon can 
be tragic. Many vampires consider owing a life boon as equivalent to being 
an unreleased childer. To owe a life boon is to surrender all of your own 
will until you have saved the life of the one that owns your life boon.

**Example Scenarios Involving Life Boons:**

- Protecting a fugitive (who might even be Bloodhunted* or on the Red List) on behalf of your creditor.
- Protecting your creditor from the Prince’s justice to the bitter end.
- Hiding a terrible crime, such as diablerie or infernalism.
- Saving the life of another vampire from an enemy at significant risk to your own life.